{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20440\viewh11240\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Kazakhstan guide edits\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 INGOs
\f0\b0 \
\'93Other INGOs take a more focused perspective by concentrating on specific gender-related issues, such as domestic violence, gender pay gap, etc. For example, see the Spotlight Initiative Regional Programme for Central Asia and Afghanistan.\'94 - take out \'93activist\'94\
\
\'93The presence of some INGOs, such as FES, can expand beyond survey and reporting with these organizations serving as platforms for workshops, discussions, and other events.\'94\
\
\

\f1\b Local NGOs
\f0\b0  - I would not position these as simply filling the gaps of INGOs, as well as saying that some of these issues go unrecognized in the state media (they are often covered by it, Feminita has been invited on state TV for public discussions, etc.)\
\
\'93Local NGOs, with grassroots, charitable, and/or international funding, are NGOs that originate from and are based in Kazakhstan. These organizations largely consist of Kazakhstani and Central Asian experts. These organizations vary by their focus area and mission but most of them are involved in civil society. Some NGOs are explicitly feminist, such as Feminist and KazFem, while others have a wider spotlight which often includes gender and sexuality-related issues.\'94\
\
\

\f1\b Government
\f0\b0 \
\'93\'85 but may lack expanded notes on methodology and data-collection for verification.\'94\
\
\

\f1\b Media
\f0\b0 \
 ) missing after Zakon.kz. \
The question here would be what does \'93mainstream\'94 mean? I wouldn\'92t cite BatyrJamal here. Vlast is a more reputable and reliable source. My suggestion: \
\
\'93State-affiliated media, such as Zakon.kz, tends to avoid critical coverage of governmental affairs, thus making it not fully reliable as a comprehensive media source. Independent media, such as Vlast and Orda, offer more exhaustive and analytical coverage of the news cycle in the country\'94\
\
\
Nur-Sultan has been renamed to Astana. }